---
layout: post
title: "July 01, 2015"
published: true
type: journal
---

Last night I started tracking our finances with mint.com (finally got it working) seems in the last couple months our spending has been a bit out of whack. Fortunately, this can be easily solved by simply controlling resturants and groceries spending.

Looking at my income and finances in a condenced way, made me think about my passive income and see what I can do to updated/increase it. 

Releasing the books and booklets will certainly help, but there is a high initial level of effort and their lifetime is relatively short.

# Passive income 

### Long term product ideas

**Leangrammar.com:** Automated grammar checking for leanpub authors.
- Revenue type: Subscriptions
- Inital cost: Medium-high, development cost and hosting.

**Sensualmachines.com:** Sextoys review website. 
- Revenue type: Adds and referrals
- Inital cost: Low, content generation could potentially add a lot to it. 

This combined with the income from the books, could potentially supplement my income nicely.


## Current side project costs

I have started many side projects, websites, etc. That are right now not adding any revenue and just adding cost; into that monthly cost I have to factor in:

- Domain renewals
- Hosting costs (DigitalOcean and Linode)
- Github private repositories
- Templates, layouts, etc.
- Time spend

#### Cost Breakdown 

|Description        | Type     | Cost (Montly)| Cost (Yearly)|
|-------------------|----------|--------------|--------------|
|Digital Ocean      | Hosting  | $50.00       | $600.00      |
|Linode             | Hosting  | $20.00       | $240.00      |
|Github             | Service  | $12.00       | $144.00      |
|Email (GoogleApps) | Service  | $15.00       | $180.00      |
|**Totals**         | -------- | $97.00       | $1164.00     |

As of right now all this this sites are just burning money.
